{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset1 Cambria Math;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Consolas;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;\red155\green187\blue89;\red0\green77\blue187;\red247\green150\blue70;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 6.3.9600}{\*\mmathPr\mmathFont1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\b\i\f0\fs22\lang9 Book exercises\cf0\b0\i0\par
ctci\par
\par
epi:\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 5.1\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 5.8\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 6.1\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 6.17\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 6.2\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 6.16\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 7.1\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 7.5\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 7.6\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 8.1\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 8.7\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 9.1\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 9.8\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 10.1\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 10.12\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 11.1\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 11.4\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 12.1\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 12.9\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 13.1\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 13.6\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 14.1\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 14.4\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 15.1\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 15.8\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 16.1\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 17.1\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 17.6\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 18.4\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 18.7\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 19.1\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 19.7\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 20.3\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 20.8\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 21.13\par
\f1\u10625?\f0\tab 21.16\par
\lang9\par
\cf1\b\i\fs24\par
Related pluralsight courses:\b0\i0\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\fs22 java fundamentals, ok\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}python fundamentals\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}solid principles of object oriented design\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}fundamentals of object oriented programming\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}design patterns\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
Very quickly (but only if there is some time):\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 sql sullivan's tsql\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}git fundamentals\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}c\lang1033 # fundamentals\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
\cf1\b\i\fs24 Behavioarl questions and answers\par
\cf0\i0\fs22 .  Tell me about yourself:\par
\b0\i\lang1033 .  Current role\i0 : I'm the IT manager at Rosen group in Bogota, Colombia, where I've been responsible for the whole infrastructure since the last 2 years, and where previously I was promoted from being responsible just for the software development platform infrastructure since 2011.\par
\i .  College\i0 : My background is in computer science. I did my undergrad at National University of Colombia and then I did a Masters degree there too. Some time later I also completed studies about IT Project Management.\par
\i .  Postcollege\i0 : After college, I had several roles as software developer/team lead/system administrator. One of the most significant is when I joined a public organization. There I created the population database system. I learned a ton about system design and I got to really drive key parts of it as I had to derive an efficient method for merging people data coming from heterogeneous sources.\par
\i .  Current role [details]\i0 : The Rosen group is a company in the oil and gas inspection business, and its branch at Bogota is a research and technology center where we do software development for several leading products in the sector. I came here as software developer, then I was promoted to software configuration manager, and then to IT Manager where I still actively do software development and where I lead a help desk person. Constantly I'm being included in technical meetings for newer projects, for architecture and \par
\b\i\lang9\par
\i0 .  Recent projects and my tasks, technical projects, challenging components, technical depth\par
P1:  infrastructure revamping project\par
\cf2\fs16   \i challenges:\i0  tight time and budget, contractors negotiation and supervision, coordination with experts from germany\par
  \i mistakes:\i0  problems with electrical design, changes in the ISP public ip and change in the addressing \par
  \i enjoyed:\i0  the result, a much more powerful vm cluster with plenty of capacity to grow and happier developers made me happy\par
 \i leadership: \i0 I was the contact point and who made the most of schedule decisions, who pressed for faster and tigher schedules with a junior helpdesk analyst\par
 \i conflicts:\i0  some problems with quality of work with contractors.\par
 \i what you'd do differently:\i0  start much earlier.\cf0\fs22\par
\par
P2: asset management ongoing project\par
\cf2\fs16   \i challenges:\i0  too many sources of information: accountability systems out of date, central information automatically gathered by german system, self service I've implemented\par
  \i mistakes:\i0  don't have a central inventory at start.\par
  \i enjoyed:\i0  coding the self service application, and envisioning the result\par
 \i leadership: \i0 It's my responsibility to solve questions of who is using what and what is available, etc\par
 \i conflicts:\i0  it's been hard as inventory changes too many times.\par
  \i what you'd do differently:\i0  start much earlier and focus faster on solving the integration with the support from corporate IT.\par
\cf0\fs22\par
\strike P3  mailbox application ongoing project\par
\cf2\fs16   \i challenges:\i0  change management as the people involved is so used to use paper records\par
  \i mistakes:\i0  don't have a \par
  \i enjoyed:\i0  coding the self service application, and envisioning the result\par
  \i leadership: \i0 It's my responsibility to solve questions of who is using what and what is available, etc\par
 \i conflicts:\i0  it's been hard as inventory changes too many times.\par
  \i what you'd do differently:\i0  start much earlier and focus faster on solving the integration with the support from corporate IT.\par
\cf0\strike0\fs22\par
P4: local license management system project\par
\cf2\fs16   \i challenges:\i0  disorganized sources of information, I requested to have a different email account representing the company to not repeat past mistakes and created and sharepoint list for doing the work; software vendors; distribution as this software deployment is not automated.\par
  \i mistakes:\i0  changes in the data model as there is always exceptional cases such as uninstallation instructions that cant be ignored\par
  \i enjoyed:\i0  envisioning the result and improving usage rates and optimizing resources\par
 \i leadership: \i0 It's my responsibility to solve questions of who is using what and what is available, etc on a team of 20 developers\par
 \i conflicts:\i0  it's been hard as those software changes too many times.\par
 \i what you'd do differently:\i0  start much earlier and focus faster on solving the integration with the support from corporate IT.\cf0\fs22\par
\par
P5: cinnamon project as scm, service and application compilation infrastructure tfs template definition, stylecop policies, database integration, parallel compilation, parallel encryption\par
\cf2\fs16   \i challenges:\i0  new technology stack as we were used to desktop applications, much more responsibility\par
  \i mistakes:\i0  ignored the impact that a multifeature branch model could have in the code, took shortcuts hardwiring several things in the templates\par
  \i enjoyed:\i0  learning how to implement an ALM solution from green field project\par
 \i leadership:\i0  I had to understand requirements with software architects and lead developers on a team of 20 developers\par
 \i conflicts:\i0  software developers didn't like very much to have been constrainted by gated checkin and a full or incremental build \par
  \i what you'd do differently:\i0  have in mind multiple feature branches from the start.\cf0\fs22\par
\par
P6: roaims projects as scm, integration with custom company build system, orientation and developer support to custom tool developed in germany, contributions for speedup of the build process in a legacy system (I had to recompile manually)\par
\cf2\fs16   \i challenges:\i0  it was a rather old java inspired way of compiling and deploying the applications based on metadata files having project information.\par
  \i mistakes:\i0  rolled with it although it imposed very long build times\par
  \i enjoyed:\i0  it had impact in the whole suite, with a code base around of 200 subprojects\par
 \i leadership: \i0 i had to support and inspire trust in the build system \par
 \i conflicts:\i0  too many times developers badmouthed the system so I had to champion it as it had its advantages.\par
  \i what you'd do differently:\i0  try to understand it quicker and then find ways to migrate to a more modern parallel system\par
\cf0\fs22\par
P7: work in guatemala project\par
data model, prototype implementation in C# webforms\par
\cf2\fs16   \i challenges:\i0  incomplete technical and nonfunctional requirements such as different culture, slower response times, and more bureaucratic\par
  \i mistakes:\i0  didn't handle the scope creep in such a tight time and cost budget\par
  \i enjoyed:\i0  the result would have an impact in vulnerable people\par
 \i leadership: \i0 I was the technical lead for the sofware development team of around 4 people in the country and 3 more business analyst abroad\par
 \i conflicts:\i0  it was a big learning experience in terms of project mgmt and technical debt\par
 \i what you'd do differently:\i0  prototype earlier and design a more sound architecture from start as technical debt in later implementation made the system less stable and the reporting wasnt as robust as they needed it. I think it was my big second system syndrome because inflated expectations\cf0\fs22\par
\par
P8: population database\par
  defined the data model\par
  created scripts for etl process\par
  migrated that system from postgresql to oracle in less than 2 weeks\par
\cf2\fs16   \i challenges:\i0  incomplete sources of information and a very intense report environment where decisions needed to be taken quickly\par
  \i mistakes:\i0  the system was geared too much to someone familiar with a command line in linux, it was not user friendly although it handled very complicated tasks\par
  \i enjoyed:\i0  the distance function implementation and it's robustness for handling different incomplete data sources\par
  \i leadership: \i0 I was the sole developer in charge\par
  \i conflicts:\i0  competing dependencies that didn' cooperated as they had fear of the scope of the system.\par
  \i what you'd do differently:\i0  implement a much more analyst friendly interface from as that it would skyrocketed its usage across the city entities\cf0\fs22   \par
\par
\f2\fs20\tab\tab\tab P1\tab P2\tab P4\tab P5\tab\tab P6\tab P7\tab P8\par
\fs12 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\fs20\par
Challenges\tab\tab\fs12 time\tab sources\tab mess\tab new stack\tab\tab old build\tab incomp.reqs\tab incomplete data\fs20\par
\tab\tab\tab\fs12 scope\tab hard\tab hard\tab broader scope\tab metadata\tab culture\tab intense environment\par
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\fs20\par
Mistakes/Failures\tab\fs12 ip addr\tab nothing \tab datamodel\tab branching\tab\tab long \tab scope creep\tab not user\fs20\par
\fs12\tab\tab\tab design\tab central\tab\tab tech. debt\tab\tab builds\tab cost/peopl\tab friendly\fs20\par
\fs12 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\fs20\par
Enjoyed\tab\tab\fs12 vm cluster\tab coding\tab optimiz.\tab alm\tab\tab impact\tab impact\tab novel\fs20\par
\tab\tab\tab\fs12\tab\tab\tab green field\tab\tab 200 csprojs\tab people\tab ideas\fs20\par
\fs12 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\fs20\par
Leadership\tab\tab\fs12 plan\tab queries\tab queries\tab stakeholders\tab trust\tab tech. lead\tab sole dev.\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab audit\tab\tab bigger dev team\tab\tab 7 people\tab\fs20\par
\fs12 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\fs20\par
Conflicts\tab\tab\fs12 quality\tab many\tab changes\tab constraints\tab\tab badmouth\tab tech. debt\tab lack\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab changes\tab\tab gated ci\tab\tab\tab resources\tab cooperation\fs20\par
\fs12 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\fs20\par
What You'd \tab\tab\fs12 earlier\tab support\tab support\tab think harder\tab quicker\tab earl.proto.\tab friendly ui\fs20\par
do differently\tab\tab\fs12 corporate\tab corporate\tab better branches sup.\tab migration\tab arch./repts \fs20\par
\fs12 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\b0\f0\fs22\par
\par
\b .  why are you looking for other opportunities?\par
\b0 things that drawed me specifically to this job in this company\par
\i I need stronger projects to start to work on, I've built an important experience but I want to be challenged at higher levels and this is an excellent opportunity\par
\b\i0 .  what are you weaknesses?\par
\b0 .  sometimes I don't have a very good notion of balance. That means sometimes I'm all in for working on something then see how it works out, and if not then I'm stress myself too much and it takes sometime later for balancing myself out.\par
.  GUI, I a sucker for creating what I see from others as beautiful interfaces. I'm good for trying to replicate those taking inspiration on it, but I don't have a gist for creating beautiful user interfaces by myself.\par
\b .  what are your strengths?\par
\b0 .  on the other hand I always had a good for code running on the backend of something. I love to read and write code that runs smoothly doing the heavy lifting behind scenes.\par
.  work ethic, I'm willing to put all what is necessary until something works successfully.\par
\b .  give an example of a time when you had a disagreement with a coworker and how it was resolved\par
\b0 demonstrate humility and understanding of the situation, over personal interests\par
\cf3\b\par
situation - action - result: S.A.R\par
\cf0\b0\par
\cf1\b\i\fs24 Questions to the caller\par
\cf0\i0\fs22 .  How fast paced is Amazon, actually? I mean, for a company of this size is great to see how you guys launch products in AWS, but from an insider perspective how do you feel about it? Do you do features freezes once in a while? do you have strong QA phases? or is everything taking place at the same time? How is the interaction in your product lifecycles?\par
.  I noticed you ask for strong candidates in Java and C++; do you have custom languages and build environments or do you use build tools from vendors like Microsoft (Visual Studio) or Oracle Netbeans?\par
.  What are some negatives in the Amazon work environment?\par
.  I had a short stint at Yahoo! Research as part of my master degree, so I am immensely eager to learn more about your staggering web scale. Could you tell me a bit more about how is your day to day interaction with big data problems? I mean, as a new employee could I have access to a testing environments with actually massive datasets?\par
\b0\par
\cf1\b\i\fs24 Implement \par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\b0\i0\fs22 linked lists, \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}trees,\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}arrays, \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}dynamic size arrays, \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}stacks,\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}queues, \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}sorting algorithms\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}search,\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}dfs,\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}dps\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}locking \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}concurrency algorithms\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}common operations in lists, trees, arrays, stacks, queues, \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}study how to implement everything again but using language own libraries\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}priority queue\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
\par
\cf1\b\i\fs24 Web resources:\par
\cf0\b0\i0\fs22 After seeking up in the internet for this search equations:\par
\cf4\b\f2\fs20 amazon interview (site:news.ycombinator.com OR site:reddit.com)\par
phone screening questions (site:news.ycombinator.com OR site:reddit.com)\par
behavioral interview questions such as (site:news.ycombinator.com OR site:reddit.com)\b0\f0\fs22\par
\cf0\par
.  Asked u/zombieball for help about a practice phone call\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.reddit.com/user/Zombieball }}{\fldrslt{https://www.reddit.com/user/Zombieball\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
.   Found salary ranges in Vancouver, BC around 60-80K CAD, and in some cases 90k CAD for graduates and with some experience. If get the offer I could aim for about 90k CAD. and try to negotiate, but for now I have to focus all my energy on passing the phone screen and the homework with flying colors.\par
\par
.  Five-essential-phone-screen-questions - steveyegge2:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://sites.google.com/site/steveyegge2/five-essential-phone-screen-questions }}{\fldrslt{https://sites.google.com/site/steveyegge2/five-essential-phone-screen-questions\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
Coding, OO design, scripting and regex, data structures, bits and bytes\par
\par
.  How to answer 64 toughest interview questions, for some reference just in case\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://dev.fyicenter.com/Interview-Questions/Sixty-Four/index.html }}{\fldrslt{http://dev.fyicenter.com/Interview-Questions/Sixty-Four/index.html\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
.  If there is time visit CareerCup.\par
\par
\par
Only if I pass the phone screen create a relation between leadership principles and past experience:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.amazon.jobs/principles }}{\fldrslt{https://www.amazon.jobs/principles\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
}
 